Week 1:

This week, I believe that I was able to get the basic foundation of this project done as far as my Week 1 goals are concerned. This week, I came up with my map and I have so far added data for two states and five metropolitan areas. The work I have done so far serves as a precursor to how the finished map will look like. I believe the bulk of my work will be done by the end of Week 2, by which time I plan to enter most or nearly all of the data sets into the map. I built this application based on what I learned during the last assignment (Assignment 12) by using Mapbox server tiles, the Leaflet JavaScript API, and jQuery. So far I’m pleased with my progress in that I have built a working prototype map that is presented in the way that I intended it to by this stage of the project.

Week 2:

This week, I was able to continue working on my map project. As of this writing, I’ve been able to add 12 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, and the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico. I’ve also added all the corresponding metropolitan areas that are located in the aforementioned areas.  Although I have much left to do, I believe that I’ve been making good progress and I believe that I’ll have all the remaining U.S. states and metropolitan areas completed and presented on the map by the conclusion of Week 3.

Week 3:

This week, I was able to finish working on my map project. As of this writing, I have successfully added the rest of the remaining U.S. states. I’ve also added the remaining metropolitan areas that were gained from my dataset from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. I’m satisfied with the progress I’ve made on this project and I’m happy to have finished the map project on time.

Final Project Summary:

I decided to make this project in the form of a map to test my newfound coding skills. These skills, the use of HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and jQuery, are valuable to me and I made use of each of them in creating my application. I chose the naturalization of new U.S. citizens as my topic because it’s a hot issue in recent news cycles, and because I myself am the son of naturalized immigrants. For this project, I created a map showing the numbers of newly naturalized U.S. citizens in the year 2015 for all 50 U.S. states, Washington, D.C., and Puerto Rico, as well as for the largest 49 metropolitan areas for which data was available. The data that was used for my application was acquired from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the associated source webpage is linked on the application page itself just above the map. Like I mentioned in Week 1, I built this application based mostly on what I learned during Assignment 12, as evidenced through the use Mapbox server tiles, the Leaflet JavaScript API, and jQuery. With the map now in its completed form, I would like to say that I’m pleased with what I’ve been able to accomplish and I will take what I learned during this project and hopefully employ it with many other projects in the future.
